
The 16 Best Tales Of Games, According To Metacritic
By
Juztin Remy Bello
Updated Dec 8, 2022

A staple of the JRPG scene, the "Tales of" franchise has produced plenty of great games. Which entry ranks as the highest on Metacritic?
best tales of games metacritic featured image

The Tales of series is one of the most renowned JRPG franchises in the gaming world. With more than 15 mothership titles and several spin-offs and sequels, Tales of continues to dominate as a franchise built on lovable characters, evolving combat systems and graphics, and so much more.

RELATED:
Tales Of Arise: All Main Party Members, Ranked

As a franchise that has been releasing games since 1995, fans have seen and experienced the best and the worst of the Tales of games. Between stories that have become critically acclaimed over the years, to the ones that have been long forgotten or criticized for questionable content, here are the best Tales of games according to their Metascores.

Updated December 8, 2022 by Michael Llewellyn: After the release of the series' most recent entry, Tales of Arise, there is a renewed interest in the series as fans anticipate the next mothership title in the franchise. Until then, Bandai Namco will remaster one of its most popular titles, Tales of Symphonia Remastered, set to launch in February 2023. Thankfully, the popular JRPG series has a vast library of mainline games and spin-offs for players to add to their backlog if they want to indulge in more Tales of adventures. This list has been updated to include the best and some of the worst games in the series.
16 Tales Of The World: Radiant Mythology (66)
Tales of the World character levelling up after battle

    Platform: PSP

Tales of the World: Radiant Mythology is a spin-off title where players can create a character and form teams of protagonists from past entries in the Tales series. While it sounds good on paper, the execution and storyline weren't up to the standard of the mainline series.

There are over 300 quests to participate in, so there is a lot of gameplay in Tales of the World. Unfortunately, most of these tasks are repetitive and mundane fetch quests. Even the most dedicated fan of the series will find this title a slog.
15 Tales Of Symphonia: Dawn Of The New World (68)
Tales of Symphonia Dawn of the New World Marta and Emil

    Platform: PS3 and Wii

Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World is a follow-up to fan-favorite Tales of Symphonia. The game takes place after the events of its predecessor. The game follows new protagonists Emil and Marta as they look for the protagonists of the first game. Emil witnesses Lloyd kill his parents during the war and wants vengeance.

Unsurprisingly, there are a few twists in store, and the game is better than its Metascore suggests. It just had the unenviable task of following one of the best games in the series. Dawn of the New World was remastered and released on the PS3 as Tales of Symphonia Chronicles.
14 Tales Of Xillia 2 (71)
Tales Of Xillia 2 roster of characters

    Platforms: PlayStation 3

The Tales of franchise rarely revisits one of its games, but it has produced a few sequels over the years. While Tales of Destiny 2 never made it to the West and Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World left something to be desired, Tales of Xillia 2 is readily available and a generally solid successor to its immediate predecessor.

Several characters from the first Xilla are playable in its sequel, even if they largely pale in comparison to the more complete protagonist, Ludger. Xillia 2 has great combat, a long storyline, and generally does right by the characters from the original game.
13 Tales Of Legendia (72)
Tales Of legendia battle

    Platforms: PlayStation 2

Overshadowed by Symphonia and Abyss, Tales of Legendia tends to be a forgotten gem in the PS2's (massive) JRPG library. Out of all the franchise's early 2000 releases, Legendia is the most dated on a graphical and gameplay level.

RELATED:
The Best Modern-Day JRPGs (According To Metacritic)

The 2D combat doesn't hold up especially well, an aspect worsened by this entry's utilization of random encounters, while the story is a bit slow to get off the mark.

That said, Legendia does have a couple of things going for it. The game's ship setting sets it apart from the rest of the franchise, and the characters are fascinating.
12 Tales Of Destiny (73)
Tales of Destiny Protagonist Stahn with the sword

    Platforms: PS1

The second game in the series Tales of Destiny launched in 1998 for American audiences but failed to reach European shores. It improves on the combat system featured in its predecessor and features a new cast of characters and stories.

It scored 73 on the now-defunct GameRankings aggregator site before it was merged with Metacritic. Tales of Destiny focuses on a young adventurer named Stahn and his magical talking sword named Dymlos. Naturally, he is dragged into a save-the-world plot, but the execution is a lot of fun.
11 Tales Of Hearts R (76)
Tales of Heart R

    Platforms: PS Vita
    Japan Only: Nintendo DS, iOS

A remade version of the original Tales of Hearts, Tales of Hearts R was released on the PlayStation Vita with fully rendered 3D models. Interestingly, the original Nintendo DS version of the game doesn't appear on Metacritic, suggesting that the PS Vita is either the better version or the more well-known of the two.

The game follows Kor Meteor, a quintessential Tales of protagonist, on a journey to restore the heart and soul (Spiria) of a mysterious girl named Kohaku Hearts. Beyond the modeling differences between the two versions, the PS Vita edition adds two new party members and a cooking system (which is a classic JRPG element that has become integral to the Tales of series).
10 Tales Of Phantasia (76)
Tales of Phantasia

    Platforms: Game Boy Advance, iOS
    Japan Only: Super Famicom, PlayStation 1, PlayStation Portable

Tales of Phantasia is the first game in the series. Released in 1995 on the Super Famicom in Japan, it eventually came to North America on the Game Boy Advance in 2006, with more versions released up until 2014. The Metacritic score of 76 refers to the Game Boy Advance version; an ios version of the game is ranked remarkably lower at 35.

RELATED:
Tales Of Arise: Beginners Tips To Get You Started

As the first Tales of title, Phantasia solidified many of the classic mechanics deeply embedded into every game in the franchise. It stands as a pillar of the series and impressively still ranks in the top 10.
9 Tales Of Zestiria (77)
Tales of Zestiria Sorey

    Platforms: PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, PC

Tales of fans have long been conflicted about Tales of Zestiria, which is apparent given its lower ranking compared to other newer releases. There is also a score discrepancy between systems, with the PC version averaging a 77 and the PlayStation 4 release (released at the same time as the PC) scoring a 72.

The additional mechanic of fusing playable characters through Armatization (combining host with seraphim) and removal of separate battle screens attests to the polarizing opinions on this entry. Regardless, the story, which follows Sorey, Rose, and their seraphim companions, is quite charming. The game also shows the franchise is willing to try new things.
8 Tales Of Graces f (77)
Tales of Graces F

    Platforms: PlayStation 3

Another remake, Tales of Graces f for the PlayStation 3, added a post-game storyline to the original Wii version. The ported version, which holds the 77 Metascore, retains most of the same content but adds new cutscenes and updated graphics.

Despite criticism for its cliché portrayal of friendship, the game is nevertheless packed with solid graphics for its time, extensive and engaging lore, and surprisingly challenging battles. It simultaneously pays tribute to the many Tales of games that precede it, while integrating new and exciting mechanics to entice long-time Tales of fans.
7 Tales Of Xillia (78)
Tales of Xillia Jude Milla

    Platforms: PlayStation 3

Tales of Xillia is lauded as mixing classic Tales of elements with new and inventive ideas, which would be further explored in the releases that followed it. Its 78 can be attested to several variables: its freshness as a recent release, the introduction of a new combat system, and its memorable personality.

RELATED:
Tales Of Arise Is Ditching One of the Franchise's Most Popular Features

A major selling point of Xillia is the way it handles its characters, with two centralized characters (Jude and Milla) as opposed to just one. While Tales of Xilliais one of the few games with a sequel, the latter ranked lower on Metacritic at 71.
6 Tales Of Eternia (78)
Tales of Eternia Destiny II

    Platforms: PlayStation 1, PlayStation Portable

One of the games responsible for spearheading the Tales of franchise, Tales of Eternia first came out in Japan on the PlayStation in 2000. As with all Tales of games of this era, Eternia features 2D anime-model sprites with linear combat. It does, however, still manage to hold up alongside recent releases that have superior graphics.

Tales of Eternia is often mistaken for Tales of Destiny 2, a sequel to Tales of Destiny that features Kyle Dunamis, son of Stahn Aileron (Tales of Destiny's protagonist). This is due to Tales of Eternia being renamed Tales of Destiny IIwhen it was released in North America to avoid trademark complications, only creating greater confusion in the process.
5 Tales of the Abyss (78)
Tales of the Abyss

    Platforms: PlayStation 2, Nintendo 3DS

Tales of the Abyss is the eighth mothership title in the Tales of series and is special as the franchise's tenth-anniversary game. a 3DS port was released in 2012, but it, unfortunately, ranked lower on Metacritic at 75.

There are many classic Tales of elements found in Abyss, including skits, cooking, titles being significant, and earning Grades. Because of this, it's very approachable for new Tales of players, while still managing to improve upon many of the mechanics associated with the franchise. Though dated by its graphics, Abyss does maintain its notoriety with its easy-to-understand combat and well-rounded storytelling.
4 Tales Of Berseria (80)
Tales of Berseria

    Platforms: PlayStation 4, PC
    Japan Only: PlayStation 3

Tales of Berseria serves as a prequel to Tales of Zestiria and follows Velvet Crowe (the franchise's first sole-female protagonist). As a game that precedes Zestiria, much of Zestiria's lore is established in Berseria, including the first Shepherd (a position Sorey later takes on in Zestiria), malakhim (who become the seraphim), and malevolence.

RELATED:
JRPGs That Are Amazing (After A Rough Few Opening Hours)

As the newest release in the franchise, Berseria has the benefit of having the most updated graphics and the widest audience. Nevertheless, it is a title that manages to retain the classic Tales of charm and pull in new players while satisfying old fans with its improved battle system, features, and classic Tales of mechanics.
3 Tales Of Vesperia: Definitive Edition (83)
Tales of Vesperia Definitive Edition

    Platforms: PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC

While many versions of Tales of Vesperia are on Metacritic, the highest ranking is the latest version, the Definitive Edition. Featuring the same storyline and cast from the original version, the Definitive Edition adds two additional playable characters (that were previously unavailable in North American versions of the game) and additional content like side-quests and more costumes.

Tales of Vesperia has often been credited as the perfect starting point for people wanting to get into the Tales of franchise. Beyond its approachability, its characters are a standout despite there being so many of them, and following their journey has kept fans continually coming back to this game.
2 Tales Of Symphonia (86)
Tales of Symphonia

    Platforms: PlayStation 3, GameCube, PC
    Japan Only: PlayStation 2

Tales of Symphonia is beloved amongst JRPG fans. Tales of Symphonia introduced the 3D battle system to the franchise while still retaining 2D elements. In addition, it also brought in costumes for the first time, which would later become a staple of the Tales of franchise.

Tales of Symphonia ranking the highest on Metacritic should come as no surprise to fans, as the game's popularity has always been apparent. Symphonia was given a sequel (which unfortunately did not do as well), a manga, an animated series, and several remasters with new content added each time. Ultimately, it stands as an iconic title that has helped keep the franchise on the gaming map. A remaster of Tales of Symphonia will launch in February 2023. Unfortunately, it doesn't include both Symphonia games like the PS3 Chronicles version did.
1 Tales Of Arise (87)
Fighting enemies in Tales of Arise

    Platforms: PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PC

Although available on the PS4 and Xbox One, Tales of Arise feels like the first proper ninth-generation JRPG, and it gets things off to a grand start. Delivering a lengthy campaign that delves into the weighty subject matter of slavery, Tales of Arise is an ambitious action RPG that contains at least a contender for the best combat system in the franchise, which is saying something.

The opening hours are especially heavy, uncharacteristically so for a Tales of game, although Arise does eventually inject a few lighthearted moments and a touch of banter. Led by Alphen, Tales of Arise's characters are a delight, and they utilize anime tropes to enforce their uniqueness rather than as a crutch.


                    

        
        

    
